The Journal of Agricultural, Biological, and Environmental Statistics (JABES) publishes papers of immediate and practical value to applied researchers and statistical consultants in the agricultural sciences, the biological sciences (including biotechnology), and the environmental sciences (including those dealing with natural resources). Only papers that address applied statistical problems will be considered. Interdisciplinary papers as well as papers that illustrate the application of new and important statistical methods using real data are strongly encouraged. For regular papers, a motivating example should be presented early in the paper. The statistical development should then be presented, and the results applied to the example. Expository, review, and survey articles addressing broad-based statistical issues are encouraged. Presentation should be accurate, clear, and comprehensible to readers with a background in statistical applications. When necessary, detailed proofs, computer code, and other lengthy technical portions of a manuscript should be placed in an appendix so that they will not interfere with the primary focus on the paper, which is to be a discussion of the statistical methods and issues being addressed. Real data should almost always be used to illustrate the statistical applications being discussed. Articles that have been previously published in a refereed journal or articles that are under review by another journal may not be submitted to JABES.

Manuscripts submitted in LATEX should generally use the “article” style and should not use any special macros. Authors are encouraged to use the JABES set of style files provided by Ted Catchpole.

Submission of a manuscript implies: that the work described has not been published before; that it is not under consideration for publication anywhere else; that its publication has been approved by all co-authors, if any, as well as by the responsible authorities – tacitly or explicitly – at the institute where the work has been carried out. The publisher will not be held legally responsible should there be any claims for compensation.
When submitting a manuscript, please DO NOT include any of your personal information (name, affiliation, etc.) or acknowledgments anywhere in the manuscript or on the cover page. This is to ensure a double-blinded review process. Thank you.


Authors wishing to include figures, tables, or text passages that have already been published elsewhere are required to obtain permission from the copyright owner(s) for both the print and online format and to include evidence that such permission has been granted when submitting their papers. Any material received without such evidence will be assumed to originate from the authors.


Authors should submit their manuscripts online. Electronic submission substantially reduces the editorial processing and reviewing times and shortens overall publication times. Please follow the hyperlink “Submit online” on the right and upload all of your manuscript files following the instructions given on the screen.

For queries regarding submission, e-mail jabes.editor@gmail.com. Each manuscript should be completely double-spaced, with one-inch margins and 12- point size letters.

Abstracts
Each manuscript should contain an abstract of about 200 words. Authors must pay great attention to the content and language of the abstract. The first part of the abstract should succinctly describe the manuscript’s motivation and statistical contribution. For the benefit of JABES’s broad readership, the remainder of the abstract should amplify and illustrate, preferably using concrete examples and interesting special cases.

Keywords
Please provide three to six key words or phrases (that do not appear in the title) in alphabetical order. For published manuscripts, these key words will be used, in addition to the title, for indexing in BIOSIS, Current Index to Statistics, Current Contents/Agriculture, Biology and Environmental Sciences (CC/AB&ES), The Science Citation Index, Science Citation Index Expanded, Agricultural On Line Access (AGRICOLA),and Compumath Citation Index.
Length of Manuscripts

Normally, papers exceeding 25 pages in the style described above will be returned to the authors by the editor without review. Please note that the page limits include the appendixes, but not tables and figures. Papers appearing in the journal should rarely have more than six (6) tables or figures combined. Authors are strongly encouraged to be judicious in the use of tabular and graphical displays and should not combine what ought to be several tables or figures into very large single ones. Papers with an extreme number of tables and/or figures may be returned by the editor without review. It is recognized, however, that graphical depictions or images are essential for conveying the message in some substantive areas. In such circumstances, more figures than in the typical submission may be appropriate, and authors should note this explicitly in a covering letter. References to Web sites where additional figures, tables, or mathematical material (such as proofs) may be found are permitted.

General Comments on Style
Do not use footnotes, and avoid abbreviations. References within the text should give the authors’ names, followed by the year of publication in parentheses. Mathematical material in the manuscript should be set using standard mathematical typography. This is normally done using LATEX (and its variants) or mathematical typesetting options such as the Equation Editor or MathType in Word. Please ensure that matrices and vectors are always set in bold. Complicated exponentials should be represented by the symbol exp(). Fractions in the body of the text (and when possible in displayed expressions) and fractions occurring in the numerators or denominators of fractions should be written with the solidus—for example, (a +b)/(c + d).

Figures and Tables
Figures and tables should be numbered consecutively at the top with Arabic numerals and clearly titled and labeled. Figures must be visually clear and capable of withstanding reduction. Once a manuscript is accepted for publication, authors should submit electronic files of all figures. The following formats are accepted: .PS, .EPS, .TIF, .BMP, .JPG, or .PCX. Other formats are also accepted; please contact the ASA production office with any questions. Normally figures will be printed in gray scale or black and white. Color figures are extremely expensive to produce and JABES encourages authors to avoid color unless absolutely necessary. Extra page charges may be levied for color reproduction. Detailed guidelines for preparation of figures and tables are provided in the ASA Style Guide.

Data and Programs
Real, current data should almost always be used to illustrate the statistical applications being discussed. The source of the data must be fully documented. When it is not practical to include the whole dataset in the paper, the paper should state how the complete dataset can be obtained. Exceptions for reasons of security or confidentiality may be granted by the Editor. Authors are strongly encouraged to upload the data analyzed, and copies of the computer programs used in the analysis as online supplements to the article.


References should be listed in alphabetical order at the end of the manuscript after any appendixes, but before any tables and figures. Each reference should contain, in the following order, the last name and initials of the author followed by those of coauthors, year of publication, title of reference, source, volume number, and page. Do not abbreviate journal titles. Reference to books must include the publisher’s name and location. Only list references actually cited in the text. The use of inessential, unpublished or obscure references is discouraged. Personal communications are listed in the text only. Other details for listing and citing references are given in the ASA Style Guide.


Once a paper has been accepted for publication, the author will be asked to forward an electronic copy of at least the text. Therefore, in order to save time and expense, it is highly recommended that the original manuscript be created in the electronic format in which it will be sent. To save both the author and JABES editing time, we urge that electronic files be sent in formats according to the following order of preference:
1. LATEX (preferred) or TEX.
2. Word or WordPerfect.
3. All other formats, one copy in original format, one saved as ASCII text.

